LinkedIn reach is completely different
to how it was even six months ago. And
this is a new era of LinkedIn. Most
people are still using the same old
tactics that worked last year. They're
creating the same posts using the same
strategies and are confused why their
posts are only getting a fraction of the
reach that they used to. So today, I
want to introduce you to a new strategy
that's working for me in 2026 that you
should take away. Why should you listen
to me about LinkedIn? My name is Chris
Donley and I have built three eight
figureure businesses previously and I've
grown my own following to 1.2 million
followers on LinkedIn. I've put this
into a step-by-step guide for you that
you can take away and start winning on
LinkedIn in 2026. I'm going to break
down exactly what is happening on
LinkedIn. Look at the key changes and
then the seven biggest tactical moves
that you can make to focus on growing
your profile. Okay, so before we get
started, I want you to think about what
you see on LinkedIn. It is full of
carousels. that's full of infographics.
And you might be thinking why? So that
brings me to my first point which is the
LinkedIn algorithm. So last year anyone
could post anything. They could post a
quote, a billboard, some generic
business advice and get thousands of
likes. And that has all changed now. So
LinkedIn has replaced its entire ranking
system for content with a single AI
algorithm called 360 Brew. It is a
language model which is completely
different from before that reads and
understands your content semantically.
So this old system explicitly needed you
to follow someone or engage with
something to be able to show you
content. Importantly, the new system
cares about relevance. The algorithm now
checks that the content that you have
matches the individual profile
experience. So profile optimization is
even more essential than before. So what
does that mean? It means gone are the
days that you can post anything. The
second thing about the algorithm which
has changed is a focus on your content
type. So 80% of your content should now
fall within three core topics. So let me
give you an example. If you are a
marketeteer, you should focus your
content specifically around three core
areas. And that might be digital
marketing, out ofome marketing, and then
B2B sales. But you really do not want to
be posting content for the sake of likes
outside of your core area because it
doesn't work anymore. And even more so
than that, the algorithm is now
specifically giving three to five times
more processing attention to the first
one or two sentences of your profile.
Meaning that your hooks are even more
valuable than they ever were before. So
the first most important lesson there is
that you really need to work on your
hooks and ensure that your hooks are
directional, that they are about your
topic and your area of expertise. And
the second really important lesson
that's come out from the recent
algorithm update is that LinkedIn is now
prioritizing saves of posts. So
importantly, your takeaway is you need
to create content that is useful, it is
valuable, and is educational to your
audience about your topic. So the final
key shift has been the depth and about
being human. The algorithm now factors
in more depth than anything else. So
both your content, but also specifically
your comments. meaning long gone are the
days where people should be trying to
get thousands of comments on their post
saying great post or good work or even
using some terrible AI automation tools.
So, the second most important thing that
you need to focus on to dominate
LinkedIn in 2026 is how to optimize your
profile so that the machine can read it
perfectly and that your audience can
understand exactly what you do, which is
your profile optimization and ensuring
that your profile is becoming a landing
page for your target customer. So, first
things first, who are you making content
for? Who is your ICP? ICP being your
ideal customer profile. So, what is it
that you sell? Do you sell accounting
services? Do you sell marketing
services? Are you selling a SAS
software? Be really specific. And number
two is what pain point do you fix? The
idea here is to get really specific. For
example, I'm an agency coach that helps
agencies build more profitable
businesses or I'm a marketing manager
that helps brands make more profitable
campaigns. So, what is your ICP
interested in? And this is critical.
Your content needs to match their
interests. So if you are an accountant
that is targeting business owners and
you want to get them to read your
content, you have to be creating content
on tax, on strategy, on cash flow
management, you know, reduction of
liabilities. If you're a marketing
manager, then the content needs to be
campaigns. It needs to be frameworks. It
needs to be examples of great marketing
that's done at scale. So make sure that
your profile mirrors this and satisfies
the algorithm and the customer. So here
is an example of my profile. Founder of
Searchable. I help businesses increase
their traffic and their revenue from AI
SEO. The about section is a chance then
to give greater depth into myself, my
business and my background and to try
and build credibility. And then you have
the features section which is a prime
spot to direct customers towards your
key offers. These two buttons that you
can see on my profile can be designed to
look like they are clear call to
actions. Always be aware that there is
an opportunity to pick topics that fit
your audience, but already know that
they perform incredibly well. So, this
is just smart topic choices. And if you
do this, the algorithm will know who you
are, what you talk about, and that you
are clearly communicating to your
audience. So, when you're picking your
topics, obviously, you want to pick the
things that match your profile, that
match your customer. We've already
talked about that. Importantly though,
you can pick topics that are already
performing incredibly well, and just
make sure that they also align with your
audience. So if you check this out, you
can actually see which topics on
LinkedIn are performing the best right
now. And so this is where you can use
data to back up how you build your
profile. So this brings me on to point
three, which is which formats are most
successful on LinkedIn today. And so if
you look at this data, you can see that
infographics and carousels are the
highest performing content on the
platform. And so you as a creator and as
a business owner should be thinking to
yourself, if I'm going to do a
presentation about marketing or a
presentation about my business, you want
to wrap that in the format that is
working best for the platform at that
time. And so if you're choosing to post
in different formats moving forwards,
you are actively choosing a harder route
towards success. People struggle with
the idea of taking really complex
educational content and turning it into
visuals. And that is a skill set. And I
want you to learn that skill set. Look
at my content. See how we are able to
take big ideas and distill them down
into easy to follow framework. And so
you can see here that infographics,
carousels and videos are the most
successful format. The reason I'm
pointing you towards infographics and
carousels is that they are the formats
that convert the highest into followers.
And so why is that? The reason is that
people spend more time on carousels and
infographics digesting the information,
taking away the value, saving them down
for later, which results in a behavior
of following. Whereas videos, people
view the video and move along. So if I
was in your position today, how would I
create content? I would focus very much
so on infographics and carousels and
trying to build as much education and
value into my content. So before we move
on to step four in how to create
educational content, I want to double
click on something which is so important
about how you build a successful
LinkedIn profile which is adaptability.
Now the platform changes, the content
changes. When carousels are the most
successful piece of content, you want to
be posting carousels. When that shifts
to video being the most successful
format on the platform, you as a creator
and as a business owner, you need to
shift because you want to always be
posting the most successful format. And
so previously we talked about how
infographics, carousels and videos, like
the format of your content is very
important, but even more important than
that for me has always been the type of
content. And so now you might be
thinking, what content am I creating? Is
it about myself? Is it about my
business? Is it education? Is it
selfies? And so importantly, step four
is that education content drives the
most followers and it drives the most
views. And so what do I mean by
education content? Simply put, you want
to take the skill that you have and the
knowledge that you have and package it
in a way that your audience is easily
able to read your content to work
through your framework and therefore get
value immediately. The one thing I think
that the world has got confused about
content is that personality is the only
way to drive growth. Whereas in reality,
I am far more likely to get value from
reading someone's step-by-step guide as
to how to do lead generation or to how
to build a business rather than seeing
someone pose in a photo and tell me
their story. So, I'll give you a very
clear example of how you can actually
brand and create frameworks based on
really well-known pre-existing topics.
And the example I'm going to use is
James Clear. So, James Clear talks about
habits and how many books through the
history of time have talked about
habits. However, he was able to put in
place a few very clear frameworks that
are specifically his and that he is
known for. One is obviously the title
atomic habits. Two is you get
incremental gains by making a 1%
improvement every single day. And as a
result, immediately James Clear has been
able to brand the idea of habits as his
own. And every single conversation that
happens about habits references James
Clear. So my perspective on personal
brand runs counter to almost every
personal branding expert I've ever seen.
My theory is that it is much easier,
much more scalable, and much more
systemizable to be creating highquality,
highv value education content as opposed
to personal content. So why is that the
case? I believe that education content
when branded properly is far more
memorable, will lead to far more saves,
will lead to far more value than
anything else that you can create. And
so the prime example I can give you is
that Simon Synynic created start with Y.
Now, forever in company building, we
have talked about purpose and vision and
mission as being the things that drive
companies and drive entrepreneurs. And
yet, he was able to take that exact idea
and brand it as start with why and give
you a very easy to follow framework as
to how to find your why. Now, he is
memorable for that framework and people
use that to implement within their
companies. And so, I'll give you a
smaller example of myself. When I teach
people how to think about sales, I teach
them the serve framework, which is how
you show up for and how you help your
customers. And so, instead of just
saying that me and my company are good
at sales, I'm able to give you a very
easy to follow, actionable step-by-step
guide. And so, the difficulty for most
entrepreneurs is showing up on camera.
It is creating personal stories. It is
creating, you know, vulnerable moments.
But is it difficult to package up what
you already know, give it a very clear
title, give it its own intellectual
property, and then post about that
consistently every single day? Which
leads me to a point that I think most
people don't think about with content,
which is you have to post content almost
every single day to satisfy the
algorithms on most of the platforms. And
so by having very clear, definable
frameworks and education content, your
team and yourself are able to do that in
a much more systemized and scalable way
than if you're having to create personal
stories the entire time. And so my
guiding point to all of you is that
education content wins based on the
stats, based on the evidence it wins.
But it becomes easier for you to do it
if you focus on creating frameworks and
step-by-step guides that your customers
can follow. Now, in 2026, another thing
that's going to be so important to the
success of your LinkedIn profile is the
depth and the length of your post. And
that is because the algorithm is
favoring deeper and longer content. But
let's take a step back and think why
does deeper and longer content perform
better which gives so much evidence and
credence to what we were talking about
with education content which is that if
people spend more time on your content
it signals to the algorithm that it is
valuable content. Whether they like it
or they comment on it doesn't matter.
It's the fact that someone has dwelled
on a video. And to give you a really
nice frame to think of here, if you're
on Instagram and you hover over
someone's video and you watch it for a
few seconds, how often are you then
distributed that person's content five
or six videos later? And so it's the
exact same theory here. If someone
spends time on your content, reads it,
gets value from it, then the algorithm
decides that content is good and
distributes. So if you want to guarantee
your success on LinkedIn in 2026, you
need to focus on pre-validating your
content based on outliers. So first and
foremost, what is an outlier? And what
is pre-validated content? So an outlier
is when a certain piece of content that
another creator post or yourself posts
receives 5 to 10 times more views than
their ordinary piece of content. So why
is this really important? So, if a
creator or yourself are getting a
thousand likes per post every single
time and then suddenly you have a post
that gets 5,000 likes or 10,000 likes,
it's most likely that the content and
what was said in the content is the hero
as opposed to the creator themselves
being the reason why it was successful.
And so, it's very important when you
think about your content that you give
yourself a head start on creating
highquality, high performing content.
So, what you don't want to do is you
don't want to focus on big accounts. Big
accounts have massive audiences already
and as a result they get a very natural
lift with their content. So you want to
focus instead on studying creators that
have similar ICP audiences to yourself.
So similar audiences, similar followers
and you want to focus on their videos or
their posts that have done incredibly
well already. So I'll give you a really
good example of this for myself. When I
started my journey in creating content,
one of the things I spoke about most was
delegation. I always think that
entrepreneurs underindex on delegation
and so I post about it all the time.
However, instead of just writing what I
thought about delegation on day one, I
instead studied every single piece of
content I could find on the internet
that had performed well in that
delegation space. I found cheat sheets.
I found infographics, carousels, I found
videos. And by studying that content and
the content that had already done so
well, I saw there was a very clear
framework within those pieces of content
about how to teach delegation. I took
that framework, I adapted it to myself,
I renamed it, I gave it my own unique
spin and we started running that content
on delegation from my account. And as
you will see here, my delegation content
has been successful on almost any
platform we put it on. And that is
because it's based on a pre-validated
idea. A lot of people have a problem
with this because they think to
themselves that you are stealing other
people's content. But the reality is
that content and stories and literature
have worked the same way forever. And so
let's take the bestselling author ever
James Clear Atomic Habits. Atomic Habits
talks about the incremental gains that
you make every single day by working on
your project or yourself and he has
branded it atomic habits. However, how
many books predated Atomic Habits and
focus specifically on that core concept.
There are dozens of these books. So what
I am saying to you is try and be more
strategic about your content. Try and
base it on things that have already done
well previously. And I give the same
advice to business owners. Rather than
starting a new business or a new concept
based on something completely new, often
my advice is let's study businesses that
have already succeeded. Let's look at
business models that have already
performed and then try and build based
on that road map. So now you have done
the hardest part. You have learned how
to create views and how to grow
followers on LinkedIn. Now it is about
turning attention into revenue for your
business. And so step five is how do you
actually sell on LinkedIn? Selling
effectively on LinkedIn is about
establishing a very clear funnel. People
fundamentally buy when they recognize a
brand or an individual. And to be
recognized, you have to be experienced
five to seven times in the same way that
if you go into a supermarket and you see
a brand, you are likely to buy it if you
have seen it multiple times before. And
so what we're doing with personal brand
and with LinkedIn content is we're
giving people the opportunity to
understand who we are and what we sell
and giving some repetition so that they
recognize us. So let's think about a
funnel for a moment. So at the top of
the funnel is awareness content. This is
the sort of content that people are able
to easily understand, easily able to
interact with and as a result get a
sense of who you are and what you stand
for. However, in the middle of the
funnel is what we were talking about
before. It's that education content.
It's the consideration phase and we want
at this stage for people to be
experiencing our frameworks, our
lessons, our step-by-step guides. And so
at this point, we have two different
types of content. We have awareness to
drive top-end awareness of who we are.
And then we have consideration content,
which is about how to get a greater
sense of what we stand for and what our
product delivers. However, at the bottom
of the funnel is a very important type
of content, which we've called
conversion content. And conversion
content is very rarely going to perform
well in and of itself. However, it is a
signal and a call to action to those
people you have caught in the funnel
already who will now go on to make a
purchase and will now buy from you. And
so conversion content is much more
niche. It is focused on exactly how you
deliver your service. So this is a time
that we delivered this service for this
brand. It is a case study. It is look at
the results that we drove for this
person. look at the results we drove for
this brand or it is a testimonial. Here
is what a client said about our brand.
Here is what a client said about our
campaign. And so this type of content
very rarely ever performs. But because
you have driven awareness content and
you have driven education content in the
middle, you have a big audience of
people who are interested and recognize
you. And so the conversion content is
your opportunity to convert them from
being followers into being customers. So
the biggest difference to selling in
2026 versus any other time previously is
that saturation of content is much
higher. More and more and more people
are selling. And so what you need to do
as an individual is to try and create
highquality lead magnets that give
people value there and then in the
moment so that they associate that value
with you and are more likely to buy from
you than they are from your competitor.
Think about two exact same sales
situations. It's you versus your
competitor. Both of you are saying you
do the same thing. However, you have
given your customer an incredibly useful
tool, a calculator, some sort of
framework that they now use every single
day in their lives. You tell me who you
think the customer is more likely to
purchase from. And so, an example I have
is I have something called the creator
OS, which is a notion template with
accompanying videos that shows creators
how to create content at scale focused
predominantly on education. And so, that
lead magnet for me brings people off
social media, gets them subscribed to my
list, and then I am able to sell to them
afterwards. And so I want you to go
check that out, reverse engineer it, and
think how you can create highquality
resources that your audience can
download and get value from. I've been
working in social media for 16 years.
And in 16 years, I have seen the
algorithm on various platforms change
enormously. From Facebook to Twitter to
LinkedIn to Instagram, everything
continuously changes. And so the most
important thing for you to take away
from this video is that you do not want
to leave yourself at the mercy of the
algorithm. The last piece of the puzzle
to winning on LinkedIn in 2026 is
deplatforming your audience. So you
might be thinking, how do I deplatform
people? And it can be as simple as you
should set up a newsletter. You can use
kit and set up your own newsletter and
then give people a reason to leave
social media and subscribe to you, which
means you need to create something
called a value exchange, which could be
I have packaged up all of my content
into a downloadable resource for you, or
I have created a framework that you can
download. I've created a notion template
that you can use. Give people a reason
to give you their email and give them
something back in return. And my final
point on exchanging value is make sure
that if you're giving away something for
free, it feels like it's worth something
they would have paid for. And if you're
charging for something, make sure that
it feels like it's two or three times
the value of the thing that you've sold.
If you enjoy this video, make sure you
check out this deep dive which goes far
beyond LinkedIn on how to become famous
within your specific industry.